River Kelly
Lab 1 - DNS: WireShark DNS
CSCI-466: Networks
September 20, 2021

1. Run nslookup to obtain the IP address of a Web server in Asia. What is the IP address of that server?

The site I decided to use was: soso.com
The IP address was: 119.28.109.132

2. Run nslookup to determine the authoritative DNS servers for a university in Europe.

The Europe University I used was: London's Global University - ucl.ac.uk
The authoritative DNS servers were:

4. Locate the DNS query and response messages. Are then sent over UDP or TCP?

They are sent over UDP.

5. What is the destination port for the DNS query message?
What is the source port of DNS response message?
 
- Request Destination Port: 53
- Response Source Port: 53

53 is the DNS query message port.

6. To what IP address is the DNS query message sent? Use ipconfig to determine the IP address of your local DNS server. Are these two IP addresses the same?

IP sent to: 100.64.0.1

7. Examine the DNS query message. What “Type” of DNS query is it? Does the query message contain any “answers”?

The DNS query "type" is: 'A' Standard query

The DNS query does not contain any "answers".

8. Examine the DNS response message. How many “answers” are provided? What do each of these answers contain?

There are 3 "answers" in the response message.

These answers contain information about:
- name of the host
- type of address
- class
- time to live (TTL)
- data length
- IP Address

9. Consider the subsequent TCP SYN packet sent by your host. Does the destination
IP address of the SYN packet correspond to any of the IP addresses provided in
the DNS response message?

Yes - 104.16.44.99

10. This web page contains images. Before retrieving each image, does your host
issue new DNS queries?

No, there are not addition DNS queries.

11. What is the destination port for the DNS query message? What is the source port
of DNS response message?



12. To what IP address is the DNS query message sent? Is this the IP address of your
default local DNS server?
13. Examine the DNS query message. What “Type” of DNS query is it? Does the
query message contain any “answers”?
14. Examine the DNS response message. How many “answers” are provided? What
do each of these answers contain?
15. Provide a screenshot.